# Classroom Manager
Simple bank app developed with _Java_ and _PostgreSQL_.

## Table of Contents
1. [About](#about)
2. [Project Goal and Implementation](#project-goal-and-implementation)
3. [Key Learnings](#key-learnings)
4. [Installation](#installation)
5. [Credits](#credits)

## About
This project was coursework for the **"Object Oriented Programming (OOP)"** course at Universidad Siglo 21, it was developed in **september 2022** and it's aim was demonstrating our understanding in basic OOP concepts in Java, including the four pillars of OOP:
* Abstraction
* Encapsulation
* Inheritance
* Polymorphism

## Project Goal and Implementation
The objective of this project was to imagine a problematic situation ourselves where we can implement a software solution to it using basic **OOP concepts**.

The problem we imagined was an old bank carrying out a digital transformation of its customer interaction processes, where the **minimum viable product** (MVP) should allow the user to 
* Create it's personal account.
* Create different **bank accounts** for different purposes (investments, saving, etc).
* Realize transactions to other users using their bank account number generated by the system.
* Check it's **transaction history**.
  
And the system should be able to:
* Persist all this data in a **relational database**, for this project we chose _PostgreSQL_ as our **DBMS**.
* Deny transactions where the origin's currency is different from the destiny's currency.
* Log into an admin account (user: root | password: password) where you can see all the accounts that have been created and the cumulative balance of all user's accounts.
 
For further understanding on how the program works, along with a step by step guide make a transaction, you can [download the PDF document](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HG5UgZhPZlrXt58SPkyC2kqjL_am6e1G/view?usp=sharing).


## Key Learnings
* Understanded **OOP concepts** and how to apply them in a real project.
* Acquired the ability to analyze a problematic situation and translate it into practical software solutions.
* Learned what is a relational database and how to implement it using a **DBMS**.
* Gained hands-on experience in version Control using **Git**.
* Obtained **problem-solving skills** through iterative development cycles and feedback loops.

## Installation
1. Download this project as zip and extract it.
2. Import it in your preferred IDE.
3. Migrate the [database file](Bank.sql) into your **PostgreSQL** manager. We've used [pgAdmin 4](https://www.pgadmin.org/download/).
4. Verify you have already installed `org.postgresql.Driver` and it's been added to project external libraries. In case you don't have it, download it from the [official page](https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/).
5. Connect your database by modifying the following lines in
   `src/Bank/DbConnect/DbConnect.java`
   ```java
   private static final String DB_USER = "yourDbUser";
   private static final String DB_PASS = "yourDbPass";     
   private static final String DB_URL = "yourLocalDbURL";
6. Run the program.

## Credits
Authors:
* [Alejandro Zdut](github.com/alezdut)
* [Tomas Temporelli](github.com/tototempo)
